
<table width="90%">
<tr><td>
<font face="Verdana" size="-1">
<span style="background-color:#696969;color:#ffffff"><h3>&nbsp;Newsletter September 2004&nbsp;</h3></span>

<font size=1>Compiled by Helen Borrie</font>
<p>
The Committee apologises for the drought of newsletters since the new Committee took office.  We lost our faithful newsletter compiler, Set, when he left the committee in order to concentrate on his new role as a married man.  He hasn't been replaced - it's a hard act to follow!
<p>
Accordingly, this bulletin comprises an update on activities since the new committee got into gear.  Because of the lateness of the AGM, there was no time to have a committee meeting before the Firebird Conference, so the meeting we held there was the first of the new session.  More delays happened and our first formal meeting, supposed to happen in June, eventually started on July 5 and extended past the middle of August.
<p> 
<b>Subscriptions and Renewals:  a Reminder</b><p>
Currently there are too many overdue and unpaid subscriptions.  Many of these have been due for a long time.  Please visit the <a href="index.php?id=members.html">Members List</a> and check your status.
<p>
<dl>
<dt><b>The not-so-new Committee</b>
<dd>
In case anyone missed the announcement following the AGM, the 2004-5 executive committee of the foundation is comprised as follows:
<blockquote>
<table cellspacing=2 cellpadding=2>
  <tr>
    <td>President</td><td>Paul Beach</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Vice-President</td><td>Paul Vinkenoog</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Secretary &amp; Public Officer</td><td>Helen Borrie</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Treasurer</td><td>Jason Wharton</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">Committee members</td>
    <td valign="top">
Nando Dessena, Lucas Franzen, Frank Ingermann, Holger Klemt <br>
Dmitri Kouzmenko, Sean Leyne, Philippe Makowski, Alexander Nevsky<br>
Mark O'Donohue, Phil Shrimpton, Martijn Tonies
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</blockquote>
<p>
Thanks to retiring members Svein Erling Tysvaer, Thomas Steinmaurer and Geoff Worboys.
<p>
<dt><b>Presidents Report</b><p>

<dd>
No report available.
<p>
<!- -------------------------------------- ->
<dt><b>Membership</b><p>
<dd>
New members approved to June 16:&nbsp;&nbsp;26 -- Welcome to you all! <br>
<dd>

Membership total at June 16:&nbsp;&nbsp;147
<p>
<!- -------------------------------------- ->
<dt>
<b>Finance</b><p>
<dd>
<ol>
<li><u>Bank balances at June 16, 2004</u>
<blockquote>
&nbsp;&nbsp;AUD &nbsp;20,004.50<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;USD &nbsp;614.00<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;GBP &nbsp;3749.25<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;RUR &nbsp;11,865.00
</blockquote>

 <li><u>Grant payments</u>
<blockquote>
USD  9,550.00 paid between January 17 and June 16<br>
</blockquote>

<li><u>Receipts since last report (January 17 to June 16)</u>
<blockquote>
Membership subs received<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;USD &nbsp;2,425.00<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;GBP &nbsp;1,007.50<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;AUD &nbsp;532.19<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;RUR &nbsp;11,865.00<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;CDN &nbsp;50.00<p>


Donations, Sponsorships &amp; Fund-raising<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;USD&nbsp;&nbsp;5,568.50<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;Stg&nbsp;&nbsp;55.00<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;EUR&nbsp;&nbsp;1367.27 (Conference fund-raising)
</blockquote>
</ol>

<!- -------------------------------------- ->
<p>
<dt><b>What our grantees are doing</b><p>
<dd>&nbsp;

<table colspecs=2 cellpadding=5 border=0 bgcolor=lightcyan>
<tr>
<td valign=top><font face="Verdana" size="-1">
Dmitry Yemanov</td>
<td  bgcolor=azure><font face="Verdana" size="-1">
No reports.
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td valign=top><font face="Verdana" size="-1">
Alexander Peshkov</td>
<td bgcolor=azure><font face="Verdana" size="-1">
Alex's report is <a href="../../index.php?op=devel&sub=engine&id=securff200407">HERE</a>.
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td valign=top><font face="Verdana" size="-1">
Claudio Valderrama</td>
<td bgcolor=azure><font face="Verdana" size="-1">
Claudio completed his work on a major code cleanup, a project funded 75/25 by Broadview Software and the Foundation.  His code scrutineering role continues.
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td valign=top><font face="Verdana" size="-1">
Pavel Cisar</td>
<td bgcolor=azure><font face="Verdana" size="-1">
Pavel Cisar is developing a test framework and forming a team of people with specific skills to write test case scenarios, set up test-beds, etc.<br>
<p>
Pavel's report is <a href="../../index.php?op=devel&sub=qa&id=qaff200407">HERE</a>.
</td>
</tr>

</table>
<p>
<dt>

<b>News from the committee meetings</b>
<p>
<dd>
<dt>
May 17, Fulda
<p>
<dd>
This was a special meeting convened to take advantage of the presence of 11 members of the Committee (out of 15) and a large number of Foundation members at the Firebird Conference in Fulda, Germany. Chair: Paul Beach. 
<dd>
Free beer, donated by absent member Craig Leonardi, was enjoyed by the non-teetotallers - thanks Craig!
<p>
<dd>
It was mainly an open forum, though the Committee did execute one piece of formal business, voting to accept Lester Caine as an honorary member to bring the coordination of the PHP driver under the umbrella of the Foundation. 
<dd>
Ann Harrison asked how the Committee decides who a) gets grants and b) gives grants and c) lines up a "prospect" for a grant. 
<dd>
Helen Borrie and Sean Leyne explained that, so far, it had been a matter of the Committee deciding that a particular task needed the commitment of a person for a number of hours a month, discussing possible candidates and then approaching the favoured candidate.  If the candidate was disposed to the idea of receiving grant funding in return for a commitment, that person would be asked to present a proposal in terms of work to be done, availability and an hourly rate.  After discussion of the parameters, grants would proceed or not as the result of a ballot.
<p>
<dd>
Paul Ruizendahl (Compiere Project) asked whether the Foundation had a budget or any plans for promotion and documentation projects. 
<ul>
<li>Several views were expressed in favour of contacting other open source projects to set up technical relationships, etc.  Nickolay Samofatov suggested that contact should be made soon with the maintainers of each of the major Linux distros. 
<p>
<li>Holger Klemt mooted the idea of "tools giveaways" for Foundation members.  Paul Beach mentioned the term "guerrilla marketing" to describe how Firebird community members could pursue ways to make Firebird known "out there" as a serious open source alternative to Oracle, SQL Server, et al, through contacts, news articles, etc.
<p>
<li>Ann Harrison raised a suggestion that the project Admin and the Foundation could consider a Firebird certification programme for database developers.
<p>
<li>Lester Caine suggested contacting the Mozilla Project with a view to carrying through on a relationship suggested last year by a Mozilla committee member, Brendan Eich.
</ul>
<p>
<dd>
Nickolay Samofatov asked how IBPhoenix and the Foundation would resolve the apparent conflict of interest between the commercial goals of the company and the charitable nature of the foundation, given that the General Manager of IBPhoenix was now the president of the Foundation. 
<dd>
Paul Beach replied that, considering IBP and the Foundation had mutual and common goals, it was hard to see any conflict of interest.  The rules of the Foundation prevented any individual or corporate member from taking control of anything or from "vote stacking".  The president's role on the committee was to preside;  it was the committee's role to decide. 
<p><dd>
Armando Halpern complained that the committee seemed to take too long to make decisions and get information to members. When asked "what decisions? what information? Armando cited documentation such as project roadmaps.
<dd>
Nando Dessena pointed out that items such as project roadmaps were not the responsibility of the Foundation, but of the Firebird Project.  Sean Leyne drew attention to the Foundation newsletters and information that the Firebird Project was already putting out, via the website and the mailing lists. 
<p>
<dd>
Nickolay Samofatov raised a question about the inconsistency for licensing of new code:  currently, project developers were expected to choose between the IPL, the IDPL, the "LGPL + exception clause", MPL and FreeBSD.  Nickolay thought that Firebird Admin should decide on one licence. 
<dd>
Artur Anjos said he thought the licensing decision should be a Foundation issue and that the Foundation should take legal advice on which licence would be most appropriate.  
<dd>
Paul Beach replied that the project's Admin group was currently undergoing a restructuring, in order to involve the most appropriate people in resolving project decisions such as licensing.  If the Admin team decided they needed to take legal advice, they could ask the Foundation to fund the costs:  that was the Foundation's role.  
<dd>
Mark O'Donohue agreed that the licensing issue was for the project to deal with, it was a key issue and it needed to be resolved.
<p>
<dd>
The next day, Lucas Franzen ran an auction, in which 1313 Euros were raised for Foundation funds. Sean Leyne paid E375 for a pass to next year's conference; Frank Ingermann bought the original "Sparky" toy for E130; Martijn paid E22 for a packet of Bamsemums;  Gwan fared better and got another packet of Bamsemums for E16;  Andrea Armbruster paid E80 for a copy of "The Firebird Book";  Gwan bought IBExpert software for E300;  Johannes Rupprecht paid E160 for Database Workbench and Log Manager software and E230 for IB Objects software.
<p>
Profits from sales of "Sparky" T-Shirts netted E54.27 for Foundation funds.
<p>
<hr size=1>
<dt>
Committee meeting, July 5 to August 12
<p>
<dd>A large portion of the meeting was devoted to reviewing grants and considering proposals to allocate funds for new grants.  The outcome is that we have extended one vital allocation and are funding three new allocations.
<p>
<ol>
<li>Funding for the central coding and coordination role, currently performed by Dmitry Yemanov, has been doubled, effectively enabling Dmitry to engage in the role for his full working week.  The additional funding is being met by an additonal sponsorship commitment of $450 per month from Broadview Software, with any shortfall to be underwritten by IBPhoenix. 
<p>
<li>The work of Carlos Guzmán Alvarez in developing and supporting the .NET provider drivers is to be assisted by a quarterly grant of EUR 300, to be reviewed at the end of December.
<p>
<li>The work of Vladimir Tsvigun on coordinating, developing and supporting the ODBC/JDBC driver is to be assisted by a quarterly grant of USD 600, to be reviewed at the end of December.
<p>
<li>A new, short-term project was proposed to address the urgent need to kick the Firebird Project web site into life.  Funding of USD 500/month for three months was approved, to assist Helen Borrie to do this makeover.
<p>
<li>Approval in principle was given to a suggestion by D. Yemanov to make a small amount of funding available by way of a consultancy fee for any time given by Oleg Loa and/or Dmitry Kuzmenko assisting in the merger of Yaffil code into Firebird codebase
</ol>
<p>
Reviews of other grants
<p>
<ol>
<li>Funding of USD500/month was allocated for the continuation of Pavel Cisar's work on QA in general and the QMTest framework in particular.  It will be reviewed again in January.
<p>
<li>Funding of USD 500/month was allocated for code scrutineering to continue and for Claudio Valderrama to continue in the role of code scrutineer.  It will be reviewed again in January.
<p>
<li>Because Alex Peshkoff had been unreachable, due to ISP problems, review of the security and code development grants allocated currently to him was deferred to the next meeting of the committee.
</ol>
<p>
Legality of &quot;warm body&quot; committee meetings
<blockquote>
Paul Vinkenoog stated that the Fulda meeting was not a legal meeting because it did not conform to the rule that committee meetings be conducted by email. Discussion ensued as to whether it would be a good thing to raise a proposal for a rule change enable live Committee meetings to be convened at the annual Firebird conference. The matter wasn't resolved, although Paul V. objected to the idea because it could never be assumed that all of the Committee would ever be able to attend the conferences.
</blockquote>
<p>
Implementation of rule changes resolved by the members at the AGM
<blockquote>
Paul Vinkenoog identified the rule changes that would be needed to accompany the Foundation's name change and to relax the current rule that only voting members can stand for election to the committee.  Unfortunately, we have left it too long to apply for the name change and effect the rule changes.  NSW government regulations require us to obtain re-authorisation from the members by putting the matters to vote again at another general meeting.  The committee is to discuss whether to convene a special general meeting for this purpose or to wait until the next AGM. 
<p>
Meanwhile, Paul V. and Phil Shrimpton are investigating which other rules might need to change to clear up some inconsistencies.
</blockquote>
<p>
Formalising procedures for grant applications and reviews
<blockquote>
This issue has been raised before. P.Shrimpton volunteered to take up G. Worboys' earlier proposal and freshen it up for discussion at the next meeting. The objective will be to develop some guidelines.
</blockquote>
<p> 
Registration of the Firebird trademark
<blockquote>The Australian registration is now cleared and paid for.  The committee discussed how to proceed with registrations in other countries. It was agreed the matter of registration in the United States should proceed and that investigation of Madrid Protocol countries needed careful investigation, considering the expense and the relative benefits of registering in different countries. Ann Harrison was to be asked for a status report on applying for trademark registration in the United States.
</blockquote>
<p>
Procedures for meetings 
<blockquote>
Completing the business of meetings in a timely and effective manner continues to be a problem for the committee, as it was for the members at the AGM as well.  The committee discussed ways to tighten procedures for meetings to keep things on track.  There was also discussion around the idea of rotating chairmanship from meeting to meeting, to spread the load, but the concept appears to conflict with our rules (9.b). The whole topic is going to be explored further at the next meeting. Hopefully we can produced the long-awaited guidelines for the conduct of meeting in time for the AGM, which is looming early in the new year.
</blockquote>
<p>
A &quot;Commercial Support/Services&quot; web page
<blockquote>
Mark O'Donohue re-raised an earlier proposal to provide a list of Firebird-related services that members were able to supply, linked from the main menu of the foundation subsite.  Members would request inclusion and would provide a small paragraph about the services/products they offer. The purpose would be to establish a place where people looking for Firebird-related skills could go to find people who have them. Mark though it would give members the opportunity to identify themselves as contacts, thus helping them to continue working in the Firebird area.
<p>
The matter wasn't resolved and Mark is expected to raise it again at the next meeting.
</dl>


</td></tr>
</table>

